README.markdown, before:

#README - Summon Stats

---

This tool was developed by Matthew Reidsma in HTML, PHP, and Javascript to learn how users of Grand Valley State University's Summon Discovery Service use the results they get from searches. We hope you find it useful.

Serials Solutions Summon doesn't give you stats on how users click on results, which is more useful than what they search for. This script adds that feature.

## INSTALLATION

Summon Stats has four files:

summon\_clicks.js: the javascript called by Summon.
write.js: The PHP script that writes the data to the spreadsheet.
clicks.csv: the spreadsheet file where the data will be saved. This is easier to install than a database.
index.php: the page for viewing your summon statistics.

### Customizing the files

Upload the index.php, write.php, and clicks.csv to the same folder on your website.

Open summon_clicks.js in your text editor. On line 6, you need to add the path to the write.php file. If you will put the file at http://mywebsite.com/files/, then you'd want line 51 to look like this:

	var path = "http://mywebsite.com/files/";
	
Make sure that trailing slash is still there!

Now upload summon_clicks.js to your server. All that is left is to get the script in Summon.

### Adding the script to Summon

Serials Solutions doesn't really want you to add scripts to Summon, but it can be done. Log into the Client Center and go to "Summon > Administration Console." Look for the section called "Custom Link". It should look like this:

<img src="http://www.daveyp.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2012/01/300x50xsummon2-300x50.png.pagespeed.ic.Qc0I-Hwaan.png" alt="Custom Summon Link" />

For the URL value, put "#" (no quotes). For the text value, add the following line (but update the path to match where you uploaded summon_clicks.js):

	<script src="PATH/TO/summon_clicks.js" type="text/javascript"></script>

That's it. Save the changes and give yourself a high five. Now wait a while and then view index.php to see how people are using your site!

More questions? Feel free to contact Matthew Reidsma on Twitter at @mreidsma or via email at reidsmam@gvsu.edu.

DEMO

You can view a live version of this tool at http://gvsulib.com/labs/summon_usage.

COPYRIGHT

This tool is copyright 2012 Matthew Reidsma. 

This tool is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This tool is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this tool. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Commit message:

Added missing .htaccess file and updated docs. Whoops.

README.markdown, after:

#README - Summon Stats

---

This tool was developed by Matthew Reidsma in HTML, PHP, and Javascript to learn how users of Grand Valley State University's Summon Discovery Service use the results they get from searches. We hope you find it useful.

Serials Solutions Summon doesn't give you stats on how users click on results, which is more useful than what they search for. This script adds that feature.

## INSTALLATION

Summon Stats has four files:

summon\_clicks.js: the javascript called by Summon.
write.js: The PHP script that writes the data to the spreadsheet.
clicks.csv: the spreadsheet file where the data will be saved. This is easier to install than a database.
index.php: the page for viewing your summon statistics.
.htaccess: sets up mod_rewrite to direct users to the write.php file while not exposing your directory structure to users

### Customizing the files

Open .htaccess in your favorite text editor. Change the path on lines 3 and 10 to the relative paths you plan to upload these files to. If you're going to put them in http://mywebsite.com/files/, you'll want to change the lines to:

	Line 3: 	RewriteBase /files
	Line 10:	RewriteRule . /files/write.php [L]

Now open summon_clicks.js in your text editor. On line 6, you need to change the path variable. Based on where we decided to put the files earlier, you'd want line 51 to look like this:

	var path = "http://mywebsite.com/files/";
	
Make sure that trailing slash is still there!

Now upload all the files to your server. All that is left is to get the script in Summon.

### Adding the script to Summon

Serials Solutions doesn't really want you to add scripts to Summon, but it can be done. Log into the Client Center and go to "Summon > Administration Console." Look for the section called "Custom Link". It should look like this:

<img src="http://www.daveyp.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2012/01/300x50xsummon2-300x50.png.pagespeed.ic.Qc0I-Hwaan.png" alt="Custom Summon Link" />

For the URL value, put "#" (no quotes). For the text value, add the following line (but update the path to match where you uploaded summon_clicks.js):

	<script src="http://mywebsite.com/files/summon_clicks.js" type="text/javascript"></script>

That's it. Save the changes and give yourself a high five. Now wait a while and then view index.php to see how people are using your site!

More questions? Feel free to contact Matthew Reidsma on Twitter at @mreidsma or via email at reidsmam@gvsu.edu.

DEMO

You can view a live version of this tool at http://gvsulib.com/labs/summon_usage.

COPYRIGHT

This tool is copyright 2012 Matthew Reidsma. 

This tool is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This tool is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this tool. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
